congratulations you've received what I
consider to be one of 1-800 flowers most
elegant bouquets it combines the
timeless and sophisticated beauty of the
rose and the calla lily also included is
some ruscus to help fill out the bouquet
the easiest way to get started is to
open your bouquet and spread out your
flowers and separate them by variety so
you'll have all all of your roses
together your calla lilies and your
foliage first thing to do is to check
your roses roses naturally have guard
petals that are around the outer edge of
the flower itself this is here for a
reason it actually protects the inner
petals of the rose we like to keep them
on and chipping but if you find that a
few of them are a little too bruised you
can just simply go in and go down to the
base of the petal and just give it a
quick tug and you can remove them don't
remove too many because you'll see as it
hydrates and starts to open up it looks
very natural and very beautiful the next
thing I'd like you to do is look at the
bottom half of the stems of the roses
calla lilies they don't have any
additional foliage but the roses if
there's a stem still a foliage still on
the stem that would be below the water
level when you make your arrangement
simply pluck that off as well you don't
want any of the extra foliage to be
below the water level that promotes
bacterial growth and will shorten your
vows life the flower food helps with
that but it also looks nicer without the
foliage in the water it gives it a nice
cleaner look then you're ready to
arrange with this particular bouquet I
think it's best to work with each
different variety one at a time so we're
going to start with our foliage we'll
take all of our stems of ruscus and get
them a pretty much same height on the
top and then we're going to cut all
these stems at once make the process
just a little bit quicker for you notice
I'm cutting the bottom of the stem on an
angle
that helps when you're putting the
flowers
into the Vaz of water to help it start
to take up the maximum amount of water
and get the hydration going as quickly
as possible if I had cut the flower stem
straight across the bottom it might sit
flush on the bottom of the Vaz and not
be taking up the water that it needs so
the same thing be very careful make sure
that with the cow is in particular that
you're using a sharp cutting tool a
knife or some sort of Clippers this has
a soft stem and you want to just be a
little gentle with it and not crush it
so the ruscus has formed my base I'm
going to take each stem of kaua give it
a fresh cut you notice when it's out of
water for a little bit and even once
it's in your Vaz the bottom of the stem
does start to split a little bit and
that's natural so when you're placing
your Cal is in go from one side of the
Vaz to the next a fresh cut taking off
the bottom piece and then place it in a
Vaz so we're creating a natural grid I'm
going to be making an all around
arrangement here with this bouquet when
you're making your arrangement decide
where you're going to place it if you're
going to be placing it on a side table
perhaps in a foyer then arrange your
flowers accordingly and have them all
sort of facing the front of the Vaz so
that's how people will be viewing the
bouquet and you see how the foliage the
ruscus helps to keep my calles in place
now we're going to go to the roses
you're doing the same thing you're
taking each rose stem giving it a fresh
cut on an angle and now I will simply
place my roses in between my stems of
calla lilies and ruscus you will find
your natural sort of process whether you
want to take a little more time that's
kind of up to you once you put your
flower in the vaz if for some reason you
want to take it out and put it in
another spot if you take it out of the
water just give it another fresh cut
on an angle you want your flowers to
drink up as much water as they can
they've been traveling for about 24
hours now to get to you to bring these
smiles and they're very thirsty so the
sooner you get them hydrated the better
now to get your flowers to last as long
as possible
you really should go through this
process every two to three days take
your vows you can take the whole bouquet
out at once clean the vows itself
because the cleanliness of the vows is
very important and then add a little
more flour food you'll get two packets
with your delivery and give each flower
either all together in a bouquet but
with this sized bouquet and the types of
flower is like the calla lilies probably
would be better to give them each an
individual cut the more care you give
your flowers the longer they'll last but
it's really really important that you
enjoy them and don't feel burdened by
them at all there are such a thing of
beauty and they really do make people
feel good I have flowers in my house all
the time and everyone appreciates it in
my family look at that isn't that
beautiful calles and roses the classic
symbol of elegance and beauty